Brief information about PDEU.,Pandit Deendayal Energy University

Energy and energy infrastructure are critical to any economy for the development and sustainability. India has recognised this fact and has embarked upon a comprehensive strategy to address the concerns of energy security of India. The need for a resource center was anticipated to keep pace with the fast developing and competitive energy industry, to plan for the future and to continuously build requisite intellectual capital and human resource skills.
PDEU has been established by GERMI as a Private
University through the State Act enacted on 4th April, 2007. The University offers programs to address
the need for trained human resources in the domains of Science, Technology, Management and
Humanities. It intends to broaden the opportunities for students and professionals to develop core
subject knowledge which are duly complemented by leadership training interventions, thereby helping
the students to make a mark in the global arena. This objective is being further addressed through a
number of specialized and well-planned undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral programs as well as
intensive research projects."

Schools in PDEU.,"School of Technology,School of Petroleum Technology,School of Petroleum Management,School of Liberal Studies"

Programmes in B.Tech are available in PDEU and corresponding seats:

Mechanical Engineering-120
Electrical Engineering-120
Civil Engineering-120
Chemical Engineering-120
Industrial Engineering-60
Computer Science-120
Information and Communication Technology-120"

seats are distributed for Gujarat and All India category admissions "Admission to the First Year of the Bachelor of Technology shall be given as under, namely:

1. Gujarat Seats (50%)
For the purpose of admission on Gujarat Seats, a candidate has to apply at ACPC and fulfil the criteria
as per ACPC norms. Kindly, refer website: jacpcldce.ac.inregarding the details on eligibility, admission
procedure, etc. Candidate has to apply to ACPC, GoG, separately.  

2. All India Seats (35%)
A candidate seeking admission on All India Seats shall apply on-line, for the registration of his
candidature, on the PDEU website, within the time limit specified by PDEU. Fifty percent seats shall be
reserved by PDEU, for those candidates who have passed the Qualifying Examination from the schools
located in India and have appeared in JEE (Main) 2021.

3. NRI Seats (15%)*
For the purpose of admission on NRI/NRI Sponsored Seats, a candidate has to apply through PDEU
website.


Eligibility criteria for admission in B.Tech in All India seats,"For the purpose of admission on All India Seats, a candidate should apply at PDEU and fulfil criteria as
mentioned below:
A candidate appeared in Paper – 1 of JEE (Main) conducted in 2021.
AND
A candidate should have passed the Qualifying Examination with minimum 45% marks (40% in case
of SC / ST) in aggregate in theory and practical of Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics."


Percentage reservation in PDEU all India quota"For the purpose of admission, the seats shall be reserved for the candidates of All India Seats under the
following categories:
Scheduled Caste (SC):15 %
Scheduled Tribe (ST): 7.5%
Physically Challenged (PH): 3%"


Admission in open category"The candidate of reserved category shall be entitled to be considered for admission on open category
seat according to his preference, subject to fulfilment of open category eligibility criteria and as per
merit order of open category merit list."

“Physically Challenged (PH)” means a person suffering from not less than forty percent of any
disability as certified by a competent medical authority. This is subject to verification of the disability
in person by the medical officer of the University."

Girls Variable Supernumerary Seats (GVSS),"Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University has taken a unique initiative to promote professional and
technical education for girls with the provision of “Girls Variable Supernumerary Seats (GVSS)” for
All India Seats admission through PDEU. The procedure and policy for the same will be as follows:
The GVSS will be created to maintain minimum 10% girls on All India Seats in each branch."

You can apply for B.Tech Admissions in PDEU at ,https://www.pdpu.ac.in/admissions-bachelor.html


"NRI Category:-Following categories of persons will be considered as NRI for admission to B.Tech.
Programmes.
• Passport of a candidate indicating his/her status as 'Non Resident Indian'.
• Certificates of Non Resident Indian issued by the Indian Embassy/Indian Consulate of the
Country where the Non Resident Indian is residing.
• Overseas Citizen of India (OCI)/ Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders.
• Persons who have studied outside India and have passed either 10th or 12th standard (or must
be appearing for in 2020) or equivalent from any system of education subject to the eligibility
conditions and have NRI status.
NRI Sponsored Candidates
If a candidate is NRI Sponsored, he must have passed the qualifying examination in India and must
have appeared in JEE (Main)-20q0. The admission will be granted based on the merit list prepared on
the basis of All India Rank obtained in JEE (Main)-2020 only. The Candidate will have to produce a
sponsorship letter (as prescribed) from an NRI who will undertake to pay all tuition and other fees for
the entire degree program."
"Which documents are required to be uploaded while applying for B.Tech admissions?
","1.JEE (Main) Admit Card
2.Caste certificate for a candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST)
issued by the authority empowered by the State Government in this behalf
3.Certificate of Physical Disability, issued and duly signed by the Civil Surgeon/ competent Medical
Authority, in case the candidate belongs to a PH Category.
4.Latest passport size photograph of the candidate
The following documents must be uploaded when they become available:
5.H.S.C. Examination (Std. XII) Mark-sheet, if available
6.JEE (Main) Score Card"

University offer scholarship for deserving students you can check at ->https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/Financial%20Assistance%202019.pdf

There is transportation facility available for Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar students.

Candidate can cancel his/her admission through Registered E-mail only or come personally to the
Institute along with the original fees paid receipts and admission order within the stipulated period



B.A.(Hons.)
Majors : English · Mass Communication · Governance & Public Administration · International Relations
                  Psychology · Economics · Indic Studies · Digital Humanities
                 
B.B.A.(Hons.)
Majors : Marketing · HR · Finance

B.Com.(Hons.)
Majors : Finance & Accounts · Banking & Insurance · Marketing & Management · Entrepreneurship & International Trade

For queries, Email : slsadmission@pdpu.ac.in
Call on Phone : 079-23275240/ 41/ 42
Mobile : 09924133225

Total seats offered
340 seats - For B.B.A./ B.A.(Hons.)
120 seats - For B.Com (Hons.)
20 seats - for Post Graduate Programme in English, Public Administration and Policy, Economics, Psychology, International Relations and Mass Communication
20 seats - For M.Sc – Finance


Entrance test papers B.B.A./ B.A.(Hons.) and B.Com (Hons.) » https://sls.pdpu.ac.in/ba-sample.html
B.B.A./ B.A.(Hons.)
During the initial years of undergraduate program, the students get exposure to around 30 subjects ranging from Communication Skills, Basic Science, Social Sciences, Management, Humanities and Performing Arts. The last years of the program focus on the major and minor subjects of the students' choice.

interdisciplinary nature of the course equips students with a skill set that enables them to explore multiple career options. Besides the UGC recognized degrees awarded (based on the selection of major areas of study), the Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University will also award a Diploma in Liberal Arts.

B.Com.(Hons.) 
As the global market is becoming volatile and more demanding every day, career opportunities are also expanding and are becoming more demanding. Mere discipline focused knowledge is not enough; one is required to develop holistic understanding of the world through interdisciplinary pursuit and industry-academia interface. In the era of globalization, any endeavor in commerce or business would surely be impacted by international influences. Economy of a country, Financial issues, Trade Policies, Culture, Demography and Geography of the country influence commercial activities. Exploring Bachelor of Commerce with interdisciplinary focus would expand the horizontal as well as vertical opportunities in career for the students and would enable them to bring applied research aspect to the industry. School of Liberal Studies at Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University offers B.Com. (Hons.) Program is in the globally recommended format and pedagogy.

BTech-Admissions-Rules >> https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/BTech-Admissions-Rules.pdf
Admission-Cancelation-Policy >> https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/Cancellation%20Policy.pdf

BTech Engg. Admission-Branch

1.Chemical Engineering

2.Civil Engineering

3.Computer Engineering

4.Electrical Engineering

5.Information & Communication Technology

6.Mechanical Engineering

7.Petroleum Engineering

Diploma to Degree Engg. Admission-Branch

1.Chemical Engineering

2.Civil Engineering

3.Computer Engineering

4.Electrical Engineering

5.Information & Communication Technology

6.Mechanical Engineering

7.Petroleum Engineering

Masters_programm 
Master's Programme-First Admission List >> https://sls.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/FirstAdmissionList-2019.pdf
Masters Admission Rules 2020 >> https://sls.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/M.A%20Admission%20Policy%2005062020.pdf
Online application for various fields >> https://pdpu.nopaperforms.com/
SPM-PDEU MBA ADMISSIONS 2021 (16TH BATCH) Apply by 14th February, 2021
SPM Ranked among top 75 (out of 630 B-Schools) in NIRF B-School Rankings-2020 (Ministry of Education, Govt. of India)
School of Petroleum Management (SPM) offers MBA programme in
(a) Energy and Infrastructure,
(b) General Management
       Marketing | Finance | Operations | Human Resource Management | Business Analytics
SPM, as a leading B-School in India, offers state-of-the-art facilities, provides world class education, training, and research, consultancy and outreach services in various sectors of the industry.

Mtech Admissions 
Mtech Brochure >> https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/Masters%20Brochure%20May2020.pdf
Mtech-Admission-policy >> https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/M.%20Tech.%20Admission%20Rules%202020-21.pdf

SPM-PDPU MBA ADMISSIONS 2021 (16TH BATCH) Apply by 14th February, 2021

M.Sc. Admissions
Broucher >> https://www.pdpu.ac.in/downloads/Masters%20Brochure%20May2020.pdf

